[MUSIC PLAYING]
ADDY: So today we're going
to do an episode about--
MATT: Tools.
ADDY: Big surprise.
MATT: But this is going
to be a roundup of some
of the tools that we've
been using that we've
kind of discovered
in 2017, and things
we are still using today.
ADDY: All right,
let's take a look.
All I want for Christmas
is a new tab key,
because my tab key broke.
MATT: But you now get to skip
the whole tabs versus spaces
argument, because you
can only use spaces,
which is the right choice.
ADDY: Yes.
Moving on.
So we've been using
visual code quite a lot,
VSCode quite a lot in our
team over the last year.
I love it for its
configurability, really, really
decent performance as well.
And it's got this huge
ecosystem of plug-ins.
MATT: So many plug-ins, yes.
But they're also adding
a ton of new features.
So let's start off with the
first plug-in-- import-cost.
ADDY: import-cost.
import-cost is really nice,
because whenever you're
requiring or importing
in a module, inline
it'll show you
exactly what the size of
that module is going to be.
Including the gzip size,
really useful for evaluating
whether the cost of that
thing is going to be worth it.
MATT: And plus,
with Lodash, where
you could import all
of Lodash versus import
a particular function,
you can actually
see the size difference,
which is really nice.
Especially as we start
using ES2015 modules.
ADDY: Exactly.
Next up, we've got
inline git-diff.
MATT: And this is baked into
VSCode, and it's super helpful.
Basically if you have anything
like a merge conflict,
it really nicely
highlights everything.
It gives you a set of
options that relate to it.
So you could select,
OK, I want the latest
from the remote branch
versus what I've got here.
And it's just a
really nice feature.
ADDY: I've been using
this a lot lately.
Another really big
feature that landed
this year was support for
leveraging some of VSCode's
TypeScript type checking
features in regular JavaScript
just by opting in using
this ts-check comment.
MATT: And this is using
the JS doc comments, right?
So it can infer from what it
knows from the JS doc comments
the types of variables
and figure out
if what you're calling,
passing in, or getting out
is actually what you're
expect to call out.
ADDY: And we're using this over
on the Lighthouse team as well.
It's pretty cool.
MATT: Nice.
ADDY: Next up let's
talk about bundling.
So we've been using
Babel quite a lot
for pretty much everything.
Something I've been
using lately is
the inverse of Babel, Lebab.io.
And what this allows you to do
is convert your existing ES5
code to ES2015 plus.
MATT: How good is this?
ADDY: It's pretty all right.
It's been especially good
for converting code over
to classes, arrow
functions, things like that.
I found the margin of error
to be relatively small,
like the number of tweaks
that I have to go in
and kind of fix up.
MATT: If you've got a big
enough codebase where you're
doing this that actually
an automated tool would
help humongously just
to get in there quickly.
Nice.
ADDY: Babel-preset-env
is another thing
we've been using a lot lately.
MATT: Yes, so back in the
day, you used to use Babel 1.
It would convert everything
to polyfills or code
that would run in
all the browsers.
babel-preset-env, you define
what browser support you want.
So you could say Chrome, and
I want the last two versions.
And the nice thing with
this is it would just
compile the things that
actually needed to be
changed rather than everything.
ADDY: Exactly.
Looks a little bit like this.
We've got you
covered for both ways
to pronounce babel as well.
I pronounce it babel, and
you pronounce it babel.
MATT: Sam Saccone told
me how to do this,
and I've already forgotten.
ADDY: It's OK.
You're both wrong.
MATT: Yes.
ADDY: Webpack.
So Webpack has been pretty
popular this last year,
continuous gain in popularity.
Webpack 3 came out.
One of the nice features
that it included
was a feature called
scoop hoisting.
MATT: Sounds fun.
ADDY: Sounds great.
So in earlier
versions of Webpack,
when you were
working with modules,
it would wrap those
functions-- it would wrap them
into functions that isolated
the scope of those modules.
Imports would get
translated into variables
that would hold the result of
a Webpack require function.
And what Webpack 3 is able to do
using the module concatenation
plug-in is basically
flatten those import chains
and, on the whole, reduce
the size of the bundles
that it's generating.
One of the nice
things about this
is that for production
apps like Tinder,
they were able to
use this and actually
reduce parsing time by 8%.
So they're like
JavaScript bundles.
MATT: So they actually
got a file size reduction
and a parse time reduction as
well, which is super awesome.
ADDY: Super awesome.
Next up, we've got DevTools.
MATT: Always evolving.
ADDY: Everybody loves DevTools.
This year, one of the
bigger things that landed
was support for Lighthouse.
MATT: It's actually
baked into DevTools now,
which is really nice.
ADDY: Yes, it is.
And it's available
in Chrome Stable.
So if you want to do performance
audits, accessibility audits,
best product audits,
all of it is available.
MATT: Everything's in there.
ADDY: Code Coverage--
so what's this?
MATT: So basically as you
load up your web page,
you pull in a ton of JavaScript.
Code Coverage
would then say, OK,
this is the amount
of the JavaScript
you actually used versus
the amount of stuff
that isn't used.
Now, the nice thing
with this is if you
start interacting with the
page, the Code Coverage
actually starts changing.
So let's say you had a
login flow that was super
important to your website.
You would actually want to
sit there and log in, and then
see how much of the code
was used and how much of it
was remaining after that.
So this actually helps
you figure all that out.
ADDY: It's great.
And one of the nice
things about it
is if you click through to any
of these red and green bars,
it'll actually show you
in the Sources panel
the original script with a line
down the side of what is red,
what was executed,
what wasn't executed.
Really nice.
Another thing that was
popular this year, CSS Grid.
MATT: So popular.
People were so happy for this.
ADDY: Yeah.
It's got decent
cross-browser support now.
Lots of good material by
Rachel Andrew and Wes Bos.
The Firefox Devtools
did a great job
of introducing CSS
Grid highlighting.
MATT: It's so pretty.
And Wes Bos has
done a tweet-- we'll
put it the description--
where he explains what
all the lines in this mean.
And it looks stunning,
trying to figure out,
especially if you
are new, learning
what everything's doing.
ADDY: And we've also
got support for this
in the Chrome DevTools.
MATT: Of course.
ADDY: Of course we do.
Puppeteer.
So this year we also
introduced Puppeteer.
It's a Node library which
provides a high level
API to control Chrome
headless over the DevTools
remote debugging protocol.
Really nice for scripting
a bunch of things.
So if you want to script
loading up a web page,
taking a screenshot of it,
converting it to a PDF,
logging in, you could do that.
MATT: I mean, if you
want it to do those,
like, you compare two images
and figure out what amount of it
changed, this would
be perfect for that.
Two screen shots, same
browser, bonk, what's changed?
ADDY: Nice for testing, nice
for scraping content from sites.
Next up.
We've got continuous
integration,
your favorite topic.
MATT: Yes, I'm so
excited about this.
So Travis came out
with this beta feature
called Travis Build Stages.
So you used to be able to
have it where in Travis you
could define multiple builds,
and it would just do them one
after the other.
Stages means you could
say, well, actually
I want these number
of tests to run.
And then after that I want
to do a deploy script,
or I want a GitHub comment
bot, or X number of stages.
So this is really
nice, because you
can start reorganizing your
Travis file into chunks.
It's still in beta.
They're on the second
iteration of this,
but I am super excited.
So good.
ADDY: Was it hard to set up?
MATT: No, it was
actually pretty easy.
The thing was just the
formatting gets a little bit
wonky depending on how
advanced you want to get
in terms of nesting stages.
ADDY: Nice.
Another thing that we've seen
quite a few different tools
spread out for is performance
budgets and performance budget
tracking.
MATT: Yes, like Bundlesize
is obviously super popular.
We've been using
it, and WorkBox,
like a similar
incantation of it.
And it's immensely helpful
for just saying, oh,
this PR has grown the
size of this by X amount.
Or this PR is purely to reduce
the file size or something.
And then you can actually
see it in the PR.
ADDY: Really great for
holding your team accountable.
MATT: Yes.
ADDY: Next up
we've got design, I
thought it was important
for us to also talk
about the bridge improving
between designers
and developers.
I use Sketch quite
a lot whenever
I'm building prototypes,
trying to sketch out UIs.
And something I came
across was a plug-in
for Sketch and ImageOptim.
So ImageOptim is this
free desktop app for Mac
that can optimize
your images, has
support for mozjpeg,
modern compression schemes.
What this hook does is whenever
you are exporting images
from Sketch to share with
other people or deploy,
it'll actually automatically
run it through ImageOptim.
So you've got the reduced number
of bytes right off the bat.
MATT: So you
technically can't really
export an image
without it basically
being as small as it can
be right off the bat.
ADDY: Right now I don't believe
that's the case in Sketch.
They should fix it.
MATT: They should.
But either way, if it
simplifies it, awesome.
ADDY: Another thing
I really wanted
to give a nod to was some work
by the Airbnb team, John Gold,
on React Sketch.
So this is a really
interesting project
where it's tailor-made
for design systems.
The idea is that you're able
to take your React components,
your React style
guides, and convert it
into a sketch file with
layers and everything,
where your designers can then
go and take a look at it.
And it's interesting, right,
because this is the first time
that this has been done code
to sketch, rather than--
MATT: Yeah, you always
see the other way.
Where you see a design or
something, and then it gets
converted to HTML
or something else.
So it's nice to see it
go the other way around.
Super clever.
Smart.
ADDY: And React, in this
case, provides a nice wrapper
for building those
reusable components.
Next up we've got scaffolding.
On One of our favorite
things this year was NPMX.
MATT: This is
really interesting.
So someone was talking about
this at a WaffleJS meetup.
And the idea behind this is
there's tons of examples,
npm install yo and
generate a web app.
And then the following
step would be yo web app.
The idea with NPMX is
you pass in the command
that you want to do.
And it figures out, well,
OK, you've tried to run yo,
but I need to go
grab the yo package.
And you tried to
run web app, and I
know I need to generate
the web app package.
So it'll do the npm
install script for you
and then immediately
run the bit afterwards.
And in the blog post for NPMX,
and I haven't tried this,
but apparently you can go
NPMX and then like a gist URL.
And it would just run
the commands in there.
I mean, granted, you
have to trust the gist.
But that's kind of a
nice way of being like,
hey, if you want to set
this thing up, here you go.
Here's the command to do it.
ADDY: So if you're
ever in a situation
where you want to
run a CLI tool,
but you don't want install it
globally just to run it once,
NPMX is for you.
Another thing we've
seen this year,
lots of CLIs to create
React, react-cli, vue-cli.
All of them have gained
first class support
for scaffolding out a
progressive web app.
MATT: You create a
new project and boom.
You're good to go with a
service worker and everything.
ADDY: Lots of cool
stuff to see there.
And finally we've got
command line tips.
MATT: You can't
have a TTT summary
of the year without
at least the command
line being mentioned once.
ADDY: So I don't use the
command line quite as often,
because I'm now a manager, and
I just send emails instead of--
MATT: You don't do code anymore.
I know.
It's fine.
ADDY: But you do.
And so CommandLineFu is a
site that you can check out.
It's got, like, a stack ranked
list of all the command line
tips, really neat
for remembering
those things that you've
probably tweeted at some point
and forgot.
MATT: Yeah, it's super nice.
Add them to your dot files.
They're all handy.
ADDY: So that's it for our tips.
MATT: Yeah, hopefully
you can try some of them
out over your holiday period.
Otherwise, happy holidays.
ADDY: Someone send
me a new tab key.
MATT: Don't do it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]